README.md, before:

certbot-dns-asd
===============

A Certbot DNS plugin using the All Secure Domains (ASD) dyanmic DNS API.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
ASD offer a secure DNS update API (with fine-grained access control on a
per-record basis).  This plugin allows certbot to use the ASD DNS update API
to carry out an RFC8555 section 8.4 "dns-01" challenge, without the security
issues associated with many other providers' DNS APIs.
  
The API can be used to obtain an SSL certificate from the "Let's Encrypt" service.

License
-------

This software is Copyright 2018, 2019 by SEOSS Ltd, and offered under the GNU
General Public License, see the file `LICENSE` (which you should have recieved
with this software) for more information.

Upgrading From v0.0.1
---------------------

Namespace handling in Certbot has changed, and this plugin has been changed
since v0.0.1 to use the new API, so the following modifications must be made to
existing configurations files (e.g. `/etc/letsencrypt/renewal/*.conf` files).

Change the following lines:
```
[renewalparams]
authenticator = certbot-dns-asd:dns
certbot_asd:dns_credentials = ...
```

to:
```
[renewalparams]
authenticator = dns-asd
dns_asd_credentials = ...
```

Installation
------------

* Option 1, using the operating-system provided ("packaged") certbot.

1. Install Certbot (for Debian-based OS e.g. Ubuntu Linux), run the following
command (or the equivalent for your OS) as root:

    `apt install --no-install-recommends certbot git python3-pip`

1. Run the following command as root:

    `pip3 install git+https://github.com/tim-seoss/certbot-dns-asd.git`

Usage
-----

The following example assumes you wish to obtain an SSL certificate for the
host `my-ssl-hostname.example.com`, and that you are managing the DNS for
the `example.com` domain using the ASD DNS service...

1. Using the ASD control panel, add one or more DNS dynamic update TXT records
of the form `_acme-challenge.my-ssl-hostname` within the `example.com` DNS
management settings.  For each newly created _acme-challenge TXT record, tick
the `Enable dynamic (API) upates` box.  Copy the "UUID" which ASD provides you
for the record(s) and use them in steps below.

1. To obtain wildcard certificates, e.g. for `*.example.com`, you will need to
create a TXT record at `_acme-challenge.example.com` (note there is no `*`
in the DNS record name, see also the note below if you need to obtain a
certificate for **both** `example.com` **and** `*.example.com`).

1. Create a JSON file based on the following example:
    ```json
    {
            "dns_api_keys": {
                    "_acme-challenge.my-ssl-hostname.example.com": {
                            "domain": "example.com",
                            "key": "aaee0065-9d22-4070-8546-14b5c0f17328"
                    },
                    "_acme-challenge.my-other-ssl-hostname.example.com": {
                            "domain": "example.com",
                            "key": "ebacdd45-d71d-46f0-b9f1-194fe9491855"
                    }
            }
    }
    ```
    e.g. in the location `/etc/letsencrypt/asd-dns-api/example_com.json`

    Be sure to restrict the permissions on the file and/or directory to prevent
    reading by unprivileged users.

1. Optionally obtain a test (Let's Encrypt staging server) certificate:

    ```
    me@server:~$ certbot --staging --authenticator dns-asd \
    --dns-asd-credentials /etc/letsencrypt/asd-dns-api/example_com.json \
    certonly -d my-ssl-hostname.example.com -d my-other-ssl-hostname.example.com
    ```

1. Optionally change the `certonly` command to automatically install the newly
obtained certificate for application server using the `--installer` option.  See
https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#combining-plugins and
https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#combining-plugins .

1. Once you have finished testing, obtain a production certificate by repeating
your previous command, having first removed the `--staging` argument to `certbot`.


If your certificate request will need more than one challenge to be verified
against a single TXT record (e.g. if you request a single certificate, which is
valid for both `example.com` and the wildcard `*.example.com`, then you will
need to create multiple records via the ASD control panel, and then list the
corresponding multiple keys like this:
```json
    {
            "dns_api_keys": {
                    "_acme-challenge.example.com": {
                            "domain": "example.com",
                            "key": ["e18a608f-e5c2-418f-bfd5-847df39280a8", "5f91a2f8-5797-4b4e-a723-3adfcb1c2c88"]
                    }
            }
    }
```

Bugs?
----

Please open an issue at https://github.com/tim-seoss/certbot-dns-asd/issues

Commit message:

Change install instructions to use venv instead of system python env.

README.md, after:

certbot-dns-asd
===============

A Certbot DNS plugin using the All Secure Domains (ASD) dyanmic DNS API.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
ASD offer a secure DNS update API (with fine-grained access control on a
per-record basis).  This plugin allows certbot to use the ASD DNS update API
to carry out an RFC8555 section 8.4 "dns-01" challenge, without the security
issues associated with many other providers' DNS APIs.
  
The API can be used to obtain an SSL certificate from the "Let's Encrypt" service.

License
-------

This software is Copyright 2018, 2019 by SEOSS Ltd, and offered under the GNU
General Public License, see the file `LICENSE` (which you should have recieved
with this software) for more information.

Upgrading From v0.0.1
---------------------

Namespace handling in Certbot has changed, and this plugin has been changed
since v0.0.1 to use the new API, so the following modifications must be made to
existing configurations files (e.g. `/etc/letsencrypt/renewal/*.conf` files).

Change the following lines:
```
[renewalparams]
authenticator = certbot-dns-asd:dns
certbot_asd:dns_credentials = ...
```

to:
```
[renewalparams]
authenticator = dns-asd
dns_asd_credentials = ...
```

Installation
------------

* It is no longer recommended to install python packages into the "system"
  python.

1. Install Certbot using the `pip` install instructions at:
   https://certbot.eff.org/instructions?ws=other&os=pip

1. Run the following command as root:
   `/opt/certbot/bin/pip install git+https://github.com/tim-seoss/certbot-dns-asd.git`

Usage
-----

The following example assumes you wish to obtain an SSL certificate for the
host `my-ssl-hostname.example.com`, and that you are managing the DNS for
the `example.com` domain using the ASD DNS service...

1. Using the ASD control panel, add one or more DNS dynamic update TXT records
of the form `_acme-challenge.my-ssl-hostname` within the `example.com` DNS
management settings.  For each newly created _acme-challenge TXT record, tick
the `Enable dynamic (API) upates` box.  Copy the "UUID" which ASD provides you
for the record(s) and use them in steps below.

1. To obtain wildcard certificates, e.g. for `*.example.com`, you will need to
create a TXT record at `_acme-challenge.example.com` (note there is no `*`
in the DNS record name, see also the note below if you need to obtain a
certificate for **both** `example.com` **and** `*.example.com`).

1. Create a JSON file based on the following example:
    ```json
    {
            "dns_api_keys": {
                    "_acme-challenge.my-ssl-hostname.example.com": {
                            "domain": "example.com",
                            "key": "aaee0065-9d22-4070-8546-14b5c0f17328"
                    },
                    "_acme-challenge.my-other-ssl-hostname.example.com": {
                            "domain": "example.com",
                            "key": "ebacdd45-d71d-46f0-b9f1-194fe9491855"
                    }
            }
    }
    ```
    e.g. in the location `/etc/letsencrypt/asd-dns-api/example_com.json`

    Be sure to restrict the permissions on the file and/or directory to prevent
    reading by unprivileged users.

1. Optionally obtain a test (Let's Encrypt staging server) certificate:

    ```
    me@server:~$ certbot --staging --authenticator dns-asd \
    --dns-asd-credentials /etc/letsencrypt/asd-dns-api/example_com.json \
    certonly -d my-ssl-hostname.example.com -d my-other-ssl-hostname.example.com
    ```

1. Optionally change the `certonly` command to automatically install the newly
obtained certificate for application server using the `--installer` option.  See
https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#combining-plugins and
https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#combining-plugins .

1. Once you have finished testing, obtain a production certificate by repeating
your previous command, having first removed the `--staging` argument to `certbot`.


If your certificate request will need more than one challenge to be verified
against a single TXT record (e.g. if you request a single certificate, which is
valid for both `example.com` and the wildcard `*.example.com`, then you will
need to create multiple records via the ASD control panel, and then list the
corresponding multiple keys like this:
```json
    {
            "dns_api_keys": {
                    "_acme-challenge.example.com": {
                            "domain": "example.com",
                            "key": ["e18a608f-e5c2-418f-bfd5-847df39280a8", "5f91a2f8-5797-4b4e-a723-3adfcb1c2c88"]
                    }
            }
    }
```

Bugs?
----

Please open an issue at https://github.com/tim-seoss/certbot-dns-asd/issues
